[[!meta date="2013-04-15 11:54"]]
[[!img media/Android_robot.svg.png style="float: right" size=100x]]
[[!draft]]
[[!tagfoo linux technology usability android CalDAV CardDAV]]

# motivation
long story short: **while google supports CalDAV/CardDAV/IMAP on their server backends they don't support it on the client side in android** and importing from third party CalDAV/CardDAV sources could lead to unwanted upload of third party data into the googlecloud - that is why i wrote this posting, to have a look at what could be done against that.

# android PIM (using the googlecloud)

## using native android applications for PIM

[[!img media/android-pim.jpg caption="native googlecloud clients vs third party replacements" size=700x]]

[[!img media/android_account_sync.png caption="google sync settings" size=400x]]

pros:

 * if you don't see advantages in privacy just go ahead, they are great programs
 * very good integration into android

cons:

 * except for the eMail app there is **no good open source support for a calendar or address book**
 * no good android client side support for CalDAV/CardDAV but then you can
  * either import third party data into the native googlecloud client or
  * also use third party clients like eMail or a modified Calendar app with added CalDAV support

# third party android PIM (when not wanting to use the googlecloud)
in [1]

## IMAP
there exists the eMail app from google which supports IMAP out of the box. but compared to the gMail app there is no search option and it is limited in its features - according to [2]. this is good enough for me though.

## CalDAV
the feature request for CalDAV support in the native Calendar app at [3] shows that there are many ppl wanting this feature! but i know that google does not ;-) 

i liked this one best:
    #455 f.van.g...@gmail.com
    Google PLEASE do not force me to not use CALDAV. I use the phone for my work, and therefore I really access to my caldav calendar. 
    
    It is extremely arrogant to think we should switch to Google Calendar instead. Even Microsoft wouldn't do that. 
    
    DON'T BE EVIL

based on the Calendar source [4] there exists a project caldav4j [5] which can either be installed as a third party calendar or as a replacement of the standard android Calendar app. according to their webpage it has CalDAV support but on android 4.1 it would only crash and there is no screenshot of the modified Clendar app. i think this how it should be done, since i do not want to accidentally upload my third party calendar to the googlecloud.

note: **such a third party Calendar app replacement, as engineered in the caldav4j project, also makes the googleclould calendar available in the same way was it would make any third party CalDAV calendar available as google exports the googlecloud calendar also using the server side CalDAV protocol implementation, see [6].**

note: **i'm not sure where the respective calendars are stored and when it is safe to say that your data won't be 'backupped' into the google cloud - so maybe a CalDAV sync adapter to the native Calendar app would be enough.**

### aCal and funambol
this seems to be interesting:
    #508 bacon.li...@live.com
    in lieu of waiting for google to stop being evil to users:
    
    Funambol
    http://f-droid.org/repository/browse/?fdid=com.funambol.androidsync
    
    aCal
    http://f-droid.org/repository/browse/?fdid=com.morphoss.acal
    http://andrew.mcmillan.net.nz/projects/aCal
    
    F-droid builds from source having first removed malware (adware/spyware/etc) if any.

i've installed aCal and it works with radicale. i have an issue with the sync, as it won't remove calendar entries which were removed in thunderbird but looks pretty good.

note: i should give funambol a try, but i really don't understand how to use this sofware just yet...

### other comments

569 puts it in a nutshell, when he states:
    #569 dlreur...@gmail.com
    Google won't do this for fear of their loosing access and control over YOUR (or is it no their) data.  
    
    There are android apps that provide this tho.

and 

    #570 federico...@gmail.com
    It is a shame that Google doesn't  support Caldav and Cardav on Android. 
    Why open standards are not supported when they conflicts with propietary Google services?

## CardDAV

maybe Contact Sync app?



# links
* [1] <http://wiki.davical.org/w/CalDAV_Clients/Android>
* [2] <http://android.stackexchange.com/questions/26456/what-is-the-difference-between-the-email-app-and-the-gmail-app>
* [3] <https://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=2361>
* [4] <https://android.googlesource.com/platform/packages/apps/Calendar.git>
* [5] <https://code.google.com/p/caldav4j/>
* [6] <http://support.google.com/a/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=1366863>
